In general when we talk about signal
processing, we imagine a situation where
we have an input signal, x of n,
an output signal, y of n, produceD
by some sort of black box here that
manipulates the input into the output.
We can write the relationship
mathematically Like so
where y then is equal to some operator
H that is applied to the input x of n.
Already when we draw this block diagram
we are making assumptions on
the structure of the process in device
in the sense that we consider a system
with a single input and a single output.
We could imagine system with
multiple inputs or multiple outputs.
But even with these limitations,
the possibilities for
what goes inside this box here
are pretty much limitless.
And unless we impose some structure on the
kind of processing that happens in this
block, we will not be able to say
anything particularly meaningful
about the filtering operation.
So the first requirement that we
imposed on a filter is linearity.
Linearity means that if we have two
inputs and we take a linear combination
of said inputs while the output is
a linear combination of outputs.
That could have been obtained by
filtering each sequence independently.
This is actually a very
reasonable requirement, for
instance take a situation where you
processing device is an amplifier and
you connect a guitar to your amplifier.
Now if you play one note and
then you play the same note louder,
you expect the amplifier to
produce just a louder note.
[SOUND] Similarly,
if you play one note and
then another note, and
then you play two notes together,
you expect the amplifier
to amplify the sum of two
notes as the sum of two
independent amplifications.
[MUSIC]
Now note that this is not necessarily
the case in all situations.
For instance, in some kinds of rock music
you want to introduce some distortion and
so you add a fuzz box.
That will distort the signal non-linearly
to create very interesting effects but
that belong to a completely
different category of processing.
[MUSIC]
The second requirement that we impose on
the processing device is time invariance.
Time invariance, in layman terms,
simply means that the system will behave
exactly in the same way independently
of when it's switched on.
Mathematically, we can say that if y[n] is
the output of the system when the input is
x[n], well if we put a delayed version
of the input inside the system,
x of n minus n-0, what we get is
the same output delayed by n-0.
And, again, we can use a guitar
amplifier as an example.
If I turn it on today, well I expect it to
amplify the notes exactly in the same
way that it amplified them yesterday.
But again,
some types of guitar effects exploit
time variance to introduce a different
flavor to the music that's being played.
For instance, the wah pedal
is a time varying effect that
will change the envelope of a sound
In ways that are not time invariant.
[MUSIC]
So what are the ingredients that go
into a linear time-invariant system?
Well, linear ingredients.
Addition, which is a linear operation,
scalar multiplication,
another linear operation, and delays.
Another requirement that is not mandatory,
but makes a lot of sense if you want to
use linear time variance system in your
real time, is that the system be cause
by that we mean that the system
can only have access to input and
output values from the past.
In that case, you can write the input
output relationship as follows.
The output is a linear functional
of past values of the input and
past values of the output.